---
layout: post
title: BrickHack 4
---

# My first RIT Hackathon

I've been going to RIT for 5 years now, and have never participated in a hackathon. BrickHack is only in its fourth year,
and I'm not sure if I remember there being a hackathon in my freshman year. Although, with all of the student groups on campus I'm sure
one of them sponsored some sort of event. But I have a good excuse for never signing up for a BrickHack. Like many students here
at RIT, I was away for the majority of Spring Semesters. One of these for a study abroad and two for co-op, nd I actually
participated in a hackathon with one my employers during one of those. So with this being (hopefully) my last Spring Semester, I
decided to sign up for this years BrickHack with a friend of mine. We went in there with no real plan and decided to see what
we could do.

I arrived to the student center a few minutes before my partner. I decided I'd register and go try to get us 2 seats together.
On my way into the main room I ran into a couple friends and stopped to chat with them about the upcoming day. So far no one
seemed to have a specific project picked, which gave me a bit more confidence. Soon after finding two seats, my friend arrived and 
we started thinking about a project. After looking over the sponsors for the event, we decided to try and implement the Wegmans API
to try and win the prize in their category. 

While we were working on gaining access to the API, we started spit balling ways to use it. We didn't really know what information would be
made available to us, so we weren't sure where to start. The first thing to get us excited was trying to use their sales data. We figured that
we could use the large amount of data stored on the sale of products to understand a regions demographic. We were afraid that having too wide
of a scope for the type of products would lead to problems, so we decided to look at just beer sales. After a little discussion, we focussed 
our objective on using the beer sales of a Wegmans to understand the surrounding areas demographic. We liked the idea, and began working on a
way to actually do it.

As we worked on the project, we quickly learned that the API didn't really provide the information we needed to reach our goal. Because of this,
we had to shift our focus to guaging the popularity of different beer brands in different areas. We couldn't get exact sales numbers, but we
could get an arbitrary value that repesented how quickly stock of a particular item would leave the shelves.

With our new focus, my friend and I worked for hours to acheive our goal. While working, we talked a lot back and forth with the Wegmans team
that attended the hackathon. We had direct access to developers on the API and were able to provide feedback. We ran into a lot of issues with
the API and were able to see changes implemented pretty quickly that allowed us to do what we needed. 

In the end, our project came out pretty well and succeeded in what we wanted. We had developed a web application that allowed users to compare
various beer brands within different areas to understand which are most popular. While we didn't win the prize for the Wegmans category
we were able to make something that we were proud of. It was a pretty great experience and made we wish that I had a chance to partake in 
previous BrickHacks. Maybe I'll make a trip next year after graduation to enter the next one. 
