---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---

# Week 6 of spring 2018
This week I experimented with some Open Source Software for my upcoming semester project, I obtained an Open Source game-client for a game I
play, and also began working on some open issues for this new game client. I also introduced my roommate to some Open Source software.


With just a few weeks left for school, I've started playing with the software that I hope to use for my project. I obtained all the source code
I need for the photogrammetry project I plan to use, MapTk. I followedthrough the provided Readme and have built the program on my machine from
the source code, and also started working through the examples for how to use the product. The examples were easy enough to follow and provided
some pretty cool results. As cool as this was though, I'm not sure that it meets the requirements I have. I originally had thought it was for 
creating point-maps of a region using satellite imagery, but it seems the measurtements that are taken are not precise enough to form 3D models
of a region. I'll have to do some more experiementing over this next week to see if this is what I want to use. If not, I'll have to find a new
program to complete this project.

I also downloaded an Open Source client for a game I enjoy playing. I'm an avid Runescape fan, and after installing CentOs I needed a new
Runescape client that can run on my operating system. I came across a project called Runelite and liked what I saw. It's an active repo
with plenty of feature requests and bug fix requests. I want to get involved in a project that is so close to my personal interests, and I've
joined the Discord server for the Runelite community. I had started to do some work on an open issue that requests some new features, but ran
into some roadblocks on the process. I figured if I joined the proper chat channel I'd be able to get pointed in the right direction for 
fixing the open issue I had selected. The community was helpful enough, but sadly the changes I had hoped to make will be much more difficult 
than I had expected. I'm still working on it though, and I hope to become a regular contributor to the Runelite community.

Finally I did my part in introducing my roommate to open source software. It was nothing huge or exciting, but it opened his eyes to a whole
new world of Software and what it means for Software to be "free". For one of his assignments, my roommate is required to make some edits
to an existing png. He originally was going to use the default Microsft program "Paint" but I decided to point him in another direction. 
I introduced him to GIMP and did my best to explain the importance of free software, and try to change his opinion that free software is
inferior software. I was somewhat succesful in my attempts, and he ended up downloading GIMP to complete his assignment. While I don't think
I converted him to a life of Open Source, it was cool to use the lessons I've learned in class and pass them on to someone that is even
more clueless than myself in the world of Open Source. 
