---
layout: post
title: Bug Fix
---

# Bug Fix Assignment
For this assignment in my Open Source class, we were required to contribute to a project by attempting to fix a known bug. This assignment 
wasn't very difficult in a technical sense. The really difficult part came from trying to find the bug I wanted to work on. Any user of a 
program can find a bug, but it takes a special kind of user to properly report the issue. While searching for my bug, I orignally wanted 
to focus on projects that I personally use. This meant searching through the 'Issues' in several repos that foccused on video game mods.
I spend a lot of my time gaming, and have actually created a few mods myself for different games, and thought this would be the perfect place
to start. I found the bugs that were filed for most of the games I play to be poorly written, however, and had difficulty finding a suitable bug.
In the end I decided to use, Up-For-Grabs (http://up-for-grabs.net/) a resource provided by my professor to find beginner bugs within github repos.

As I briefly mentioned earlier, it was difficult to find a properly written bug report. Since I spent a few months on co-op working as an
automation engineer, I have some experience with writting full and detailed bug reports. A report should be expected to contain information
about the procedure followed to trigger a bug, the expected results, the actual results, and the environment that the bug was encountered on.
Providing developers with the procedure used to cause a bug, allows them to the reproduce the issue for further investigation. Normally, just
knowing the bug isn't enough, and a bit of investigation is needed to be done. Providing the exact steps to create a bug, reduces the time needed
trying to investigate. I found this portion to be the most laking through all the bugs I found. Users were usually sure to provide the expected
and desired results, but did not always report the steps they took to get to the problem. I eventually was able to find a bug with simple reporting
that also seemed easy enough for me to fix. Using Up-For-Grabs, I filtered bugs that use .NET so that I could return to a favorite framework of mine.
After a bit of searching, I was able to find a bug that related to not properly handling null values.(https://github.com/tdwright/contabs/issues/40)
This seemed easy enough upon reading, and I decided to take it on.  

The first issue I had with this bug, was the location in the code that the problem arises not being provided in the bug report. I originally planned
to hop in the IRC for the project to ask for some help, but quickly learned that one does not exist for the project. I decided to try and email
the bug reporter to ask for some more details, and I was luckily met with a quick response. The bug reporter was also the creator for the repo
and he was more than happy to have someone interested in contributing to the project in any way. The owner pointed me in the right direction,
and it was off to the races with fixing and testing some code! I forked the projects repo, found the bugs location, and added some
checks for null values that would be handled more gracefully than spitting out a Null Reference Exception. I commited my changes to my forked
repo, and issued a pull request with the project repo to see my changes included into the master branch. 

I look forward to hearing from the owner about next steps. I'm sure that I messed something up in the process, it's my first time
attempting something like this. But it will be exciting to fix any issues and see my code hopefully implemented in the project!
