---
layout: post
title: BSidesROC
---

# BSidesROC 2018
Over the weekend I attended a securty conference hosted at RIT called BSidesROC. This was the 7thyear that this year was held, but only my first time attending. I didn't have a chance to attend the workshops that were held on Friday, but managed to attend Saturday for a number of different talks. 

Before arriving at the conference I made sure to purchase an online ticket and have it ready when I got to the door. I was pleasantly suprised at being greeted with a giftbag when I reached the sign in table. Inside were some neat little stickers, notes from sponsers, and a cool VHS tape that would be used as my pass for the event. I had gotten there a little early and decided to walk around and talk to some of the booths that were set up. 

I first happened across a booth for the Open Web Application Security Project, which I was pretty surprised to see. During my last co-op, I briefly used some OWASP tools and I was interested in stopping by the booth to discuss some of what I learned. I breifly spoke with a gentleman named Joe there about the work that I did using the web security training tool, WebGoat, and what a great tool I thought it was. I explained that while on my last co-op I was responsible for developing a secure coding workshop for the companies developers to follow. I utilized the training tool WebGoat to put together a course that I thought would be most beneficial for the development team to learn secure coding practices. I was surprised to learn that this was very similar to what Joe did currently. Shortly after talking about the work he does, we parted ways. But not before he gave me his business card to get in touch. 

After a few more breif talks at the MakerSpace and Datto booths, I made my way to the first of a few talks that I wanted to hear. 

'Rise of the Miners' was a talk going over the recent increase in malware that uses infected computers to mine cryptocurrencies. I have a small understanding of blockchain technologies and the cyrptocurrency market so I was interested in going. The talk was just as informative as I had hoped, and the speaker did an excellent job presenting. The speaker had a professional history of examining malware, and after having noticed a rise in cyrpto-mining malware, decided to do an in-depth study into these types of infections. The discussion covered the reasons that hackers have shifted towards miners, and why these types of infections are more commonly ignored.  The potential future of these types of malware were examined, due to reasons such as fluctuations in the cyrpto market as well as a crackdown on these forms of malware. 

After 'Rise of the Miners' I moved on to talk that looked at the rising impact of IOT devices in digital forensics. This talk may have easily been the highlight of the day. The speaker for this was a seemingly very intelligent woman who workin digital forensics. The talk focussed on how the growing popularity of IOT devices is starting to have a significant impact in the criminal investigation world. Her presentation mainly consisted of anecdotal stories where the speaker related her experience using different devices to prove either guilt or innocence of a suspect. Some of the most exciting stores included her recounting how she obtained the last 60second recording of an Alexa to prove a mans innocence in assisted murder, to using a fitbit to find a man guilty of arson and insurance fraud. 

I spent a bit of time at a talk that discussed hacking point of sale systems, but this one was a little to much based on pen testing for my skill level, and a lot of the material went right over my head. This talk was supposed to be followed by a brief round of lighting talks, which was the real event I had hoped to see. There were, however, no signups for the lightning talks and this event was cancelled. 

This was a new experience for me and I really enjoyed the oppurtunity to attend BSidesROC. My only regret is that this was my first time going. This sadly makes sense when considering this is only the second spring semester I've spent at RIT in 5 years. I know that if I ever find my self in Rochester for another Spring, BSidesROC is a must-do.  
