---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---

# Week 7 of spring 2018
## Open Source and Gun Control?

When the average person thinks about firearm ownership in the United States, arguments tend to revolve around the context of the 2nd ammendment,
and whether the rights it grants can be infringed, or if politicians from a couple hundred years ago could possibly regulate the modern dat.
What is not frequently discussed, is how the Open Source community is involved in the gun debate, and how it could be affected by laws and regulations
that are put in place. 

So by now, you're probably wondering how Open Source and guns are related. Well similar to software, firearms are designed and created by humans. And
just like software, there are gunsmiths who decide to make their plans freely available. There are a few cases of this, as seen with Defense
Distributed's release of their models for a 3D printable gun. The moment these became available, a debate was sparked. Does American free speech
carry into the digital world? Can a person share whatever they want online, even if it's a blueprint for a gun? Shortly after Defense Distributed
released their models, the State Department determined 'No, they may not'. The State Department forced DD to remove their models from the internet
and an exception to what is allowed to be free and open source was made. 

Defense Distributed has since then continued their work to share firearms via the internet. Moving away from 3D printed, they entered into the 
gray-market area of crafting firearms through the use of 80% receivers. Their business today is an open source hardware and software project
called "Ghost Gunner". Ghost Gunner is a CNC machine whose dimensions are specifically made to hold the recievers to unfinished rifles and hand guns.
The Software that runs this macine is all openly available on the web for users to read and revise. Also available, are the instruction files
that tell the machine how to finish various forms of 80% receivers. 

For those that don't quite understand yet, the purpose of this company and their product is to allow their customers to craft "ghost guns" in the 
comfort of their garage or basement. The definition of a ghost gun, is one that is made without a serial number and is completely legal and
untraceable. In the eyes of the federal government, it essentially does not exist. This is legal through the regulations put on the driving piece
of a firearm, its receiver. This part starts out as a block of metal and is machined down to the desired dimensions and form for the firearm.
But when does this piece of metal get considered a gun? In the eyes of US law, it's when it is about 80% complete. So the metal can be machined to
the proper dimensions, but is not hollowed out to allow the inner workings of the gun to be installed. At this point, it's just a piece of metal
free from any regulations.

Well this allows the sale of the metal receivers, but what about the CNC machine designed to develop firearms? Well again, there is a gray-area here.
The machine is just a regular CNC with specific dimensions. There can be no regulations on a tool like this, as that would mean regulations on any
CNC machine,( maybe even mills and drill presses, as they can be used to accomplish the same thing!) and it seems a little ridiculous to start
regulating tools based on a small percentage of users. So metal can't be regulated, a simple CNC machine can't be regulated, what about the 
instructios designed to craft firearms? Can those? This is the heart of an ignored but extremelly important part of the gun control debate. So far,
there has been no law to restrict the sharing of these files. Defense Distributed takes advantage of the Open Source community, and releases
their plans into the public domain so that anyone may access them. The do this to bring a level of abstraction to their products. It would be
illegal to sell a machine to people that crafts guns in their garage. But it's not illegal to sell metal blocks, sell a CNC, or to share instructions
for a CNC to machine a piece of metal. Had all these compononents been combined and kept private, their project would have been shut down
immedietly. 

So this is the role that Open Source plays in firearms. Being used as a loophole that allows people around the world to craft untraceable firearms.
This will obviously confuse and maybe upset some people. And it will definitley raise some internal questions. The majority of readers will probably
think this is unacceptable and expect some sort of regulation. But how does that work without affecting the greater Open Source community? Do we not
allow things that could be considered dangerous to be shared? Obviously firearms fall into that category, but who makes the decision on the next
controversial case? Maybe exceptions are written into the laws of sharing free speech that prohibit this sort of thing, but how great is a law
that needs exceptions? Rules shouldn't be made to then arbitrarly be worked around. 

There may be no proper answer as to what should be done, and it may make some people feel uncomfortable. But the Open Source community plays a large,
albeit silent, role in the world of firearms. With a current increase in the gun control debate, any reasonable argument will need to address the
issue of citizens crafting ghost guns in their home. 
