---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

# Week 2 of spring 2018
Well I never thought I'd say this, but it's nice to be back at school. I've settled into my classes and gotten a taste of what
my last semester will look like. It's nice to be back with friends for one last stretch before graduating and heading out
into the real world. Recently I've had an interesting time getting some exposure to the Open Source community for the first time,
which has been educational in so many ways. I was also able to participate in Brick Hack 2018, which was my first time attending
a Brick Hack and a great experience. 

So far in my Foundations of Open Source Software class, we've been getting an introduction to the world of Open Source, and it's been eye opening
to say the least. I've never been afraid of using software that is free, but am now just learning the difference between "freeware" and
"free software". I'm no stranger to free software, having worked on various Linux distributions throughout my experience programming.
This has lad me to be use a number of free tools and programs to aid in my productivity. While I enjoy using free software, I'm not
opposed to paying for my software, or using freeware versions of products. I've never been cognisant of the main goals of free
software, but now understand it's not just about providing community driven software, but it's about creating an environment
where software is free to run, read, revise, and redistribute. I'm interested to learn more about the philosophy of Open Source, 
and try to incorporate it more into my life. 

This week I also participated in Brick Hack. This wasn't my first hackathon, but it was the first time time doing as Brick Hack
and it turned out to be a lot of fun. A good friend of mine also had never participated in a Brick Hack before, and he decided to
join me. We weren't exactly what it was we wanted to do, but decided in the worst case we would just work on a web application
project that we are both working on. We ended up deciding to work with the Wegmans API and developed a neat little web app 
that used product information to try and understand a particular Wegmans's store customer demographic. I'll be posting a blog in the future
that further details my experiences with Brick Hack. 

  This was most of my second week in a nut shell. Things are going well so far and I'm excited to see where they lead. 
