---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

# Week 5 of spring 2018
This week I decided to start moving myself closer into the world of Open Source. My laptop has been sitting on a bookshelf for the past few months,
as I have not had a charger to use with it. I went out to purchase one this past weekend and decided to make it my goal to use it as a hub for
free and open software. The first thing I did was install centOS on my computer. I'm no stranger to using Linux distros, and wanted to get one back
on a computer of mine. As for my decission with CentOS, I just wanted to try it out. I have used Fedora before in a professional environment and 
absolutely loved it, so I wanted to try out CentOS and see what differences I liked and disliked. In order to obtain the .iso for my CentOS install,
I went to the webpage mirrors.rit.edu and found the latest CentOS version available. After successfully installing my new OS, I started the hunt for
some open source software to put on my 'new' computer. My first priority was to get the Libre suite onto my device so that I can complete
assignments in my other courses. I happened to luck out here, however, as Libre came pre-installed with my distro so I didn't have to install that
as well. My second priority was an IRC chat client. I wanted to get some experience using a text-based chat client, and decided to install
'weechat' for any IRC needs I have while on my laptop. I still need an email client, but I haven't found one I would like to use yet. Normally I 
would go for Thunderbird, but I have that set up on my desktop already and sadly Thunderbird does not play well when set up on multiple devices. 

This is all of the software I have installed on my laptop thus far. I would like to get more projects installed, but I also want to keep my laptop
as bare as possible. It's not exactly the best machine, and keeping any un-needed applications uninstalled is a top priority for me. I hope to 
continue my current process of having a use-case I need to fulfill, and finding free software to help me do just that. 
