---
layout: post
title: Godot
---

# HFOSS Commarch Project : Godot

Getting started at contributing to an open source project can be difficult. Some projects make the challenge a little easier for their newcomers 
by providing detailed documentation and being easily accesible. For a first time open source contributor, getting a hang of the contribution process
can be enough to scare them away. In addition to the challenges with bringing new talent onto a project, open source projects also have a challenge
of keeping those that begin contributing. The hardships that come with trying to get active contributors to join a project are cause for a great deal of
risk for several projects. 

Godot luckily alleviates this problem somewhat by adhering to a prety standard contribution process. Any developer may issue a PR containing their
code changes, but maintainers must first review the code before it can be closed. The diversity of community members who are able to close
pull requests allows Godot to avoid a common problem where one member has complete control of a project. This bottleneck of control can cause tension
when the intentions of this member deviate from the community. Full details on how to contribute to Godot can be found here (https://github.com/godotengine/godot/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

Godot is fortunate enough to benefit from a fairly active community. The members communicate frequently in their IRC chat room, and issues are
tracked through the Github interface. Larger decisions that will drastically afect the community and the projcets direction seem to receive a good
deal of discussion. The input of all contributors appears to be valued when considering the direction of Godot. 

After calculating Calloway's Coefficient of Fail for the Godot project, it received a score of 55. 50 of these points were given due to the lack of
GMake, however, and our team decided that these points were not appropriately representitive of the project. After this deduction, Godot receives a
low Coefficient of Fail at just 5 points. 

While Godot has a fairly democratic community, accesible documentation, and ease of access, it has one large pain point in its Git by a Bus risk. 
The Godot project has seen its fair share of contributors come and go, but only a small handful of developers have consistently remained to work 
on Godot. If either of the two primary contributors of the project were hit by a bus and no longer able to contribute, the project would see
an immediate drop in quality. While it's feasible that the project may manage to stay maintained as it is, it is unlikely that many large updates
would appear for the project. 
