## Quiz 2 ##

### Please select the most appropriate span of time for each of the following [4pts in total]: ###

1 ) The Bayh-Dole Act was passed, which gave rise to university technology transfer offices; the GNU Project and Free Software Foundation were founded; the US acceded to the international Berne Convention on copyrights; software was explicitly covered by US federal copyright law [ 1 pt] 
c. 1980s

2 ) Creative Commons was founded. [1 pt]
e. 2000s

3 ) UNIX was published, Michael Hart started digitizing texts for what became Project Gutenburg, and Bill Gates wrote his “Open Letter to Hobbyists”. [1 pt]
b. 1970s

4 ) Linus Torvalds started writing the Linux kernel, the Digital Millenium Copyright Act was passed. [1 pt]
d. 1990s

5.1 ) NC 
c. You may not use the work for commercial purposes

5.2 ) SA 
a. You must convey the same rights “downstream” that were conveyed to you by “upstream”.

5.3 ) ND 
d. You may not make changes to the work

5.4 ) BY 
b. You must attribute the contributions of the original or upstream creators of the work

6)The presence of which license elements make a license “non-free” in the eyes of the FSF? (give the letters, 1 pt XC each)
* ND
* NC

7) Which license element is a copyleft? (give the letter, 1 pt XC)
* SA

8.1) Project Guttenberg : provides free and open literary works

8.2) 

9) We’ve discussed “the four R’s” as a shorthand for the freedoms attached to software for it to be considered “free” or “open source”. List or describe each. (eg, if you can remember the “r” word you can just give that. If you cannot remember the term, but can describe the freedom involved, that also counts). Various “r” words are roughly synonymous for some of the freedoms, but we’re counting freedoms here, not synonyms so if you give two (or more) terms for the same freedom, it only counts once. For the purposes of this quiz, “remix” does not count as describing any of them. (2pt each)
* read
* revise
* run
* redistribute


